Hi everybody and welcome back.
Now in this lecture we're going to look at how to write multiple lines to a file.
So the write function doesn't to add any new lines to the text we write.
So if you write more than one line without including a newline character you will not get it cleaned
the formatted file.
So we're going to take a look at an example that is now and we're also going to look at is an example
of the a function and that is how to append to a file.
So we're going to look at those two examples now.
So we're going start off simply with message to creating a variable called Message equals input.
So we're going to look for some user input.
I'm going to ask the user what is your favorite film
OK.
There we go.
Now we're going to print message title.
OK so we all know what that does.
And just for good measure let's make sure it works.
There you go what is your favorite film.
OK so now we create our file name very file name.
Equals favorite film ok.
T x t.
Next with open file name comma quote A to A for a pen a File object
and we have the file object variable.
File object.
Right.
I'm going to write our message so we get from the user
I'm going to put it in a new line.
OK there we go.
So let's just take a quick look at this.
So the beginning of the file line 5.
We asked the user what is our favorite film.
We print out the question we then create a line 8 new variable which stores the file favorite film that
t XTi then that line 10.
We call that variable again which obviously opens our file favorite film that he and then opens it with
the method.
Which means that we can append information to our file and line 11.
We then write the message write the input that we get from the user onto a new line.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to open this up an idle and let's see how it works.
I'll be back in just one moment when I've opened up my idle editor.
OK everybody so I'm here my idol and I've got to open and why am I switching into my idol because you
might remember sublime does not allow for user input but idle thoughts.
So let's run this file.
There we go.
What is your favorite film.
So my favorite film is give me a film Give me it's Christmas so let's say Santa Claus Santa Claus.
There we go.
The Santa Claus.
OK it doesn't look like it does much.
But let's jump back into our editor.
And let's see now did we cast a favorite film that he XTi we did when we ran the program and end it
to Santa Claus.
Let's go back to Ireland not in a new film run this again.
What is your favorite film to Santa Claus to.
There we go.
Let's go back to our file.
There you are.
To Santa Claus to all working away perfectly so we can see the append method and a new line method in
action here.
OK.
So that brings this section on files to a close but this is only a basic introduction into writing and
saving the files.
We have a files part two coming up so I'll see you there.
Thanks for listening and I'll see you in the next lecture.